Skip to main content
System maintenance August 4th and 5th
Learn more
×
Search
Submit
Donate
Log in
Condensed Matter > Materials Science
[Submitted on 11 Jan 2022]
Strain-tuned topological phase transition and unconventional Zeeman effect in ZrTe5 microcrystals
Apurva Gaikwad, Song Sun, Peipei Wang, Liyuan Zhang, Jennifer Cano, Xi Dai, Xu Du
The geometric phase (Berry phase) of an electronic wave function is the fundamental basis of the topological properties in solids. Modulating band structure provides a tuning knob for the Berry phase, and in the extreme case drives a topological phase transition. Despite the significant developments in topological materials study, it remains a challenge to tune between different topological phases while tracing the impact of the Berry phase on quantum charge transport, in the same material. Here we report both in a magnetotransport study of ZrTe5. By tuning the band structure with uniaxial strain, we directly map a weak- to strong- topological phase transition through a gapless Dirac semimetal phase via quantum oscillations. Moreover, we demonstrate the impact of the strain-tunable spin-dependent Berry phase on the Zeeman effect through the amplitude of the quantum oscillations. We show that such a spin-dependent Berry phase, largely neglected in solid-state systems, is critical in modeling quantum oscillations in Dirac bands in topological materials.
Subjects:	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
Cite as:	arXiv:2201.04049 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci]
 	(or arXiv:2201.04049v1 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci] for this version)
 	
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2201.04049
Focus to learn more
Submission history
From: Xu Du [view email]
[v1] Tue, 11 Jan 2022 16:52:23 UTC (3,741 KB)

Access Paper:
View PDF
TeX Source
view license
Current browse context:
cond-mat.mtrl-sci
< prev   |   next >

new | recent | 2022-01
Change to browse by:
cond-mat

References & Citations
NASA ADS
Google Scholar
Semantic Scholar
Export BibTeX Citation
Bookmark
 
Bibliographic Tools
Bibliographic and Citation Tools
Bibliographic Explorer Toggle
Bibliographic Explorer (What is the Explorer?)
Connected Papers Toggle
Connected Papers (What is Connected Papers?)
Litmaps Toggle
Litmaps (What is Litmaps?)
scite.ai Toggle
scite Smart Citations (What are Smart Citations?)
Code, Data, Media
Demos
Related Papers
About arXivLabs
Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax (What is MathJax?)
We gratefully acknowledge support from our major funders, member institutions, and all contributors.
About
·
Help
·
Contact
·
Subscribe
·
Copyright
·
Privacy
·
Accessibility
·
Operational Status
(opens in new tab)
Major funding support from