Skip to main content
arXiv is now an independent nonprofit!
Learn more
×
Search
Submit
Donate
Log in
Physics > Space Physics
[Submitted on 3 Sep 2024]
Effective dose equivalent estimation for humans on Mars
Miguel Ralha, Pedro Teles, Nuno Santos, Daniel Matthiä, Thomas Berger, Marta Cortesão
Exposure to cosmic radiation is a major concern in space exploration. On the Martian surface, a complex radiation field is present, formed by a constant influx of galactic cosmic radiation and the secondary particles produced by their interaction with the planet's atmosphere and regolith. In this work, a Martian environment model was developed using MCNP6 following the guidelines of the 1st Mars Space Radiation Modeling Workshop. The accuracy of the model was tested by comparing particle spectra and dose rate results with other model results and measurements from the Radiation Assessment Detector (RAD) onboard the Curiosity rover, taken between November 15, 2015, and January 15, 2016. The ICRP's voxel-type computational phantoms were then implemented into the code. Organ dose and effective dose equivalent were assessed for the same time period. The viability of a mission on the surface of Mars for extended periods of time under the assumed conditions was here investigated.
Subjects:	Space Physics (physics.space-ph)
Cite as:	arXiv:2409.02001 [physics.space-ph]
 	(or arXiv:2409.02001v1 [physics.space-ph] for this version)
 	
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.02001
Focus to learn more
Submission history
From: Pedro Teles Dr [view email]
[v1] Tue, 3 Sep 2024 15:48:14 UTC (4,452 KB)

Access Paper:
View PDF
HTML (experimental)
TeX Source
view license
Current browse context:
physics.space-ph
< prev   |   next >

new | recent | 2024-09
Change to browse by:
physics

References & Citations
NASA ADS
Google Scholar
Semantic Scholar
Export BibTeX Citation
Bookmark
 
Bibliographic Tools
Bibliographic and Citation Tools
Bibliographic Explorer Toggle
Bibliographic Explorer (What is the Explorer?)
Connected Papers Toggle
Connected Papers (What is Connected Papers?)
Litmaps Toggle
Litmaps (What is Litmaps?)
scite.ai Toggle
scite Smart Citations (What are Smart Citations?)
Code, Data, Media
Demos
Related Papers
About arXivLabs
Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax (What is MathJax?)
We gratefully acknowledge support from our major funders, member institutions, and all contributors.
About
·
Help
·
Contact
·
Subscribe
·
Copyright
·
Privacy
·
Accessibility
·
Operational Status
(opens in new tab)
Major funding support from