Skip to main content
arXiv is now an independent nonprofit!
Learn more
×
Search
Submit
Donate
Log in
Astrophysics > Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics
[Submitted on 1 Sep 2023 (v1), last revised 19 Oct 2023 (this version, v2)]
Revisiting a flux recovery systematic error arising from common deconvolution methods used in aperture-synthesis imaging
Jack F. Radcliffe, R. J. Beswick, A. P. Thomson, A. Njeri, T. W. B. Muxlow
The point-spread function (PSF) is a fundamental property of any astronomical instrument. In interferometers, differing array configurations combined with their 
uv
 coverage, and various weighting schemes can produce an irregular but deterministic PSF. As a result, the PSF is often deconvolved using CLEAN-style algorithms to improve image fidelity. In this paper, we revisit a significant effect that causes the flux densities measured with any interferometer to be systematically offset from the true values. Using a suite of carefully controlled simulations, we show that the systematic offset originates from a mismatch in the units of the image produced by these CLEAN-style algorithms. We illustrate that this systematic error can be significant, ranging from a few to tens of per cent. Accounting for this effect is important for current and future interferometric arrays, such as MeerKAT, LOFAR and the SKA, whose core-dominated configuration naturally causes an irregular PSF. We show that this offset is independent of other systematics, and can worsen due to some factors such as the goodness of the fit to the PSF, the deconvolution depth, and the signal-to-noise of the source. Finally, we present several methods that can reduce this effect to just a few per cent.
Comments:	7 pages, 5 figures. Accepted for publication in MNRAS (version updated after language editing)
Subjects:	Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM)
Cite as:	arXiv:2309.00533 [astro-ph.IM]
 	(or arXiv:2309.00533v2 [astro-ph.IM] for this version)
 	
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2309.00533
Focus to learn more
Submission history
From: Jack Radcliffe [view email]
[v1] Fri, 1 Sep 2023 15:41:42 UTC (1,269 KB)
[v2] Thu, 19 Oct 2023 07:13:05 UTC (1,269 KB)

Access Paper:
View PDF
TeX Source
view license
Current browse context:
astro-ph.IM
< prev   |   next >

new | recent | 2023-09
Change to browse by:
astro-ph

References & Citations
NASA ADS
Google Scholar
Semantic Scholar
Export BibTeX Citation
Bookmark
 
Bibliographic Tools
Bibliographic and Citation Tools
Bibliographic Explorer Toggle
Bibliographic Explorer (What is the Explorer?)
Connected Papers Toggle
Connected Papers (What is Connected Papers?)
Litmaps Toggle
Litmaps (What is Litmaps?)
scite.ai Toggle
scite Smart Citations (What are Smart Citations?)
Code, Data, Media
Demos
Related Papers
About arXivLabs
Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax (What is MathJax?)
We gratefully acknowledge support from our major funders, member institutions, and all contributors.
About
·
Help
·
Contact
·
Subscribe
·
Copyright
·
Privacy
·
Accessibility
·
Operational Status
(opens in new tab)
Major funding support from